beluga_ros/docs/_doxygen/beluga_ros-main.md, before:

# API Reference

This is the API reference for Beluga ROS. It provides utilities to aid Beluga integration with ROS and ROS 2.

### Components

Explore the library's components:

#### Generic filters

Generic MCL implementations ready for ROS integration.

| | |
|-|-|
| beluga_ros::Amcl | 2D lidar Adaptive MCL algorithm, functionally equivalent to that of [Nav2 AMCL](https://index.ros.org/p/nav2_amcl). |

#### Data structures

Thin, Beluga-compatible wrappers for typical ROS data structures (usually messages).

| | |
|-|-|
| beluga_ros::LaserScan | A beluga::BaseLaserScan subclass that wraps [sensor_msgs/LaserScan](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/LaserScan.html) messages. |
| beluga_ros::OccupancyGrid | A beluga::BaseOccupancyGrid2 subclass that wraps [nav_msgs/OccupancyGrid](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/nav_msgs/html/msg/OccupancyGrid.html) messages. |

#### Utilities

| | |
|-|-|
| [tf2_sophus.hpp](@ref tf2_sophus.hpp) | tf2 message conversion API overloads for Sophus types. |

Commit message:

Restore particle cloud visualization using markers (#377)
### Proposed changes

Follow-up to #372. As the title reads, this restores the functionality
we had with `nav2_msgs/ParticleCloud` using
`visualization_msgs/MarkerArray` instead.


https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/assets/13500507/9b4e84b8-0b27-40cd-a052-63f1ef91dadb

#### Type of change

- [ ] 🐛 Bugfix (change which fixes an issue)
- [x] 🚀 Feature (change which adds functionality)
- [ ] 📚 Documentation (change which fixes or extends documentation)

### Checklist

- [x] Lint and unit tests (if any) pass locally with my changes
- [x] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works
- [x] I have added necessary documentation (if appropriate)
- [x] All commits have been signed for
[DCO](https://developercertificate.org/)

---------

Signed-off-by: Michel Hidalgo <michel@ekumenlabs.com>

beluga_ros/docs/_doxygen/beluga_ros-main.md, after:

# API Reference

This is the API reference for Beluga ROS. It provides utilities to aid Beluga integration with ROS and ROS 2.

### Components

Explore the library's components:

#### Generic filters

Generic MCL implementations ready for ROS integration.

| | |
|-|-|
| beluga_ros::Amcl | 2D lidar Adaptive MCL algorithm, functionally equivalent to that of [Nav2 AMCL](https://index.ros.org/p/nav2_amcl). |

#### Data structures

Thin, Beluga-compatible wrappers for typical ROS data structures (usually messages).

| | |
|-|-|
| beluga_ros::LaserScan | A beluga::BaseLaserScan subclass that wraps [sensor_msgs/LaserScan](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/sensor_msgs/html/msg/LaserScan.html) messages. |
| beluga_ros::OccupancyGrid | A beluga::BaseOccupancyGrid2 subclass that wraps [nav_msgs/OccupancyGrid](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/nav_msgs/html/msg/OccupancyGrid.html) messages. |

#### Utilities

| | |
|-|-|
| [particle_cloud.hpp](@ref particle_cloud.hpp) | APIs for particle cloud I/O over ROS interfaces. |
| [tf2_eigen.hpp](@ref tf2_eigen.hpp) | tf2 message conversion API overloads for Eigen types. |
| [tf2_sophus.hpp](@ref tf2_sophus.hpp) | tf2 message conversion API overloads for Sophus types. |
