docs/getting-started/quickstart.md, before:

# Quickstart

The simplest approach to Beluga is to try out one of the few examples available.

## Prerequisites

First and foremost, you have to [install Beluga](./installation).

## Run Beluga over a recording

Data recordings are key when tuning for performance and troubleshooting issues, even if synthetic like the ROS bags used by this example. On a terminal, just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch
```
:::

::::

## Run Beluga in simulation

Simulation streamlines and speeds up robotics development workflows, even if purely functional like in this example using [Flatland](https://flatland-simulator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). On two separate terminals run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example simulation.launch.xml
```
```bash
ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard  # for teleoperation!
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example simulation.launch
```
```bash
rosrun teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard.py  # for teleoperation!
```
:::

::::

## Run Beluga on a robot

:::{tip}
Don't have an robot at home to play with? There are plenty open source and/or open hardware alternatives you can acquire or build. Our proposal is [Andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino).
:::

Eventually, we have to hit the hardware. This example assumes a fully functional ROS (1) or ROS 2 powered robot, equipped with a 2D lidar and already publishing odometry estimates. Furthermore, a 2D map is necessary. Any suitable SLAM solution may be used to build one. [SLAM Toolbox](https://github.com/SteveMacenski/slam_toolbox), [Cartographer ROS](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and [RTABMap ROS](https://github.com/introlab/rtabmap_ros) are quite popular. Once you are all set, on a terminal you can just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example localization_launch.py use_composition:=True localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example localization.launch localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
```
:::

::::

:::{note}
In both cases, the `localization_params_file` argument can be omitted if [default AMCL parameters](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/blob/main/beluga_example/params) are compatible with your robot.
:::

## Visualize Beluga output

A picture is worth a thousand words. Probabilistic algorithms are no exception. Fortunately, there is RViz. Just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
rviz2 -d $(ros2 pkg prefix --share beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros2.rviz
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
rviz -d $(rospack find beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros.rviz
```
:::

::::

:::{tip}
When in ROS 2 and subscribing to localization related topics, we recommend the following [QoS](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Quality-of-Service-Settings.html) settings:

| Topic            | Depth | History   | Reliability | Durability      |
|------------------|-------|-----------|-------------|-----------------|
| `map`            | 5     | Keep last | Reliable    | Transient local |
| `particle_cloud` | 5     | Keep last | Best effort | Volatile        |
| `pose`           | 5     | Keep last | Reliable    | Volatile        |
:::

Commit message:

Isolate Flatland dependency (#361)
### Proposed changes

This patch separates the Flatland dependency from the usual ROS
workflow, documenting the necessary steps to satisfy it when and if
necessary. This should fix the recent breakage in Beluga doc jobs up in
the ROS buildfarm (e.g.
[Hdev](https://build.ros2.org/job/Hdev__beluga__ubuntu_jammy_amd64/1/display/redirect),
[Idev](https://build.ros2.org/job/Idev__beluga__ubuntu_jammy_amd64)).

#### Type of change

- [x] 🐛 Bugfix (change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] 🚀 Feature (change which adds functionality)
- [ ] 📚 Documentation (change which fixes or extends documentation)

### Checklist

- [x] Lint and unit tests (if any) pass locally with my changes
- [x] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works
- [x] I have added necessary documentation (if appropriate)
- [x] All commits have been signed for
[DCO](https://developercertificate.org/)

---------

Signed-off-by: Michel Hidalgo <michel@ekumenlabs.com>
Co-authored-by: Nahuel Espinosa <nespinosa@ekumenlabs.com>

docs/getting-started/quickstart.md, after:

# Quickstart

The simplest approach to Beluga is to try out one of the few examples available.

## Prerequisites

First and foremost, you have to [install Beluga](./installation).

## Run Beluga over a recording

Data recordings are key when tuning for performance and troubleshooting issues, even if synthetic like the ROS bags used by this example. On a terminal, just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch
```
:::

::::

## Run Beluga in simulation

Simulation streamlines and speeds up robotics development workflows, even if purely functional like in this example using [Flatland](https://flatland-simulator.readthedocs.io).

:::{important}
Flatland must be installed separately to run the following commands.
:::

:::{tip}
You can use [Beluga development containers](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/blob/main/DEVELOPING.md#environment), provisioned by default with a Flatland source installation, to run the following commands.
:::

On two separate terminals run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example simulation.launch.xml
```
```bash
ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard  # for teleoperation!
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example simulation.launch
```
```bash
rosrun teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard.py  # for teleoperation!
```
:::

::::

## Run Beluga on a robot

:::{tip}
Don't have an robot at home to play with? There are plenty open source and/or open hardware alternatives you can acquire or build. Our proposal is [Andino](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/andino).
:::

Eventually, we have to hit the hardware. This example assumes a fully functional ROS (1) or ROS 2 powered robot, equipped with a 2D lidar and already publishing odometry estimates. Furthermore, a 2D map is necessary. Any suitable SLAM solution may be used to build one. [SLAM Toolbox](https://github.com/SteveMacenski/slam_toolbox), [Cartographer ROS](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/), and [RTABMap ROS](https://github.com/introlab/rtabmap_ros) are quite popular. Once you are all set, on a terminal you can just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
ros2 launch beluga_example localization_launch.py use_composition:=True localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
roslaunch beluga_example localization.launch localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
```
:::

::::

:::{note}
In both cases, the `localization_params_file` argument can be omitted if [default AMCL parameters](https://github.com/Ekumen-OS/beluga/blob/main/beluga_example/params) are compatible with your robot.
:::

## Visualize Beluga output

A picture is worth a thousand words. Probabilistic algorithms are no exception. Fortunately, there is RViz. Just run:

::::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} ROS 2
```bash
rviz2 -d $(ros2 pkg prefix --share beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros2.rviz
```
:::

:::{tab-item} ROS 1
```bash
rviz -d $(rospack find beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros.rviz
```
:::

::::

:::{tip}
When in ROS 2 and subscribing to localization related topics, we recommend the following [QoS](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Quality-of-Service-Settings.html) settings:

| Topic            | Depth | History   | Reliability | Durability      |
|------------------|-------|-----------|-------------|-----------------|
| `map`            | 5     | Keep last | Reliable    | Transient local |
| `particle_cloud` | 5     | Keep last | Best effort | Volatile        |
| `pose`           | 5     | Keep last | Reliable    | Volatile        |
:::
