beluga_example/README.md, before:

# Beluga Example

This package contains example launch files that demonstrate the use of Beluga-based nodes (e.g. [Beluga AMCL](../beluga_amcl)) with external ROS bags or simulation software.

## Examples

1. **Run an example application using a ROS bag** (inside development container).

    For ROS 2 distributions, run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source install/setup.bash
    ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml
    ```

    For ROS 1 distributions, run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source devel*/setup.bash
    roslaunch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch
    ```

1. **Run an example application using a simulation and teleop controls** (inside development container).

    For ROS 2 distributions, in two separate terminals run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source install/setup.bash
    ros2 launch beluga_example simulation.launch.xml
    ```
    ```bash
    ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
    ```

    For ROS 1 distributions, in two separate terminals run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source devel*/setup.bash
    roslaunch beluga_example simulation.launch
    ```
    ```bash
    rosrun teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
    ```

1. **Launch a localization node manually**.

   For ROS 2 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   ros2 launch beluga_example localization_launch.py use_composition:=True localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
   ```

   For ROS 1 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   roslaunch beluga_example localization.launch localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
   ```

   The `localization_params_file` argument can be ommited if the [default AMCL parameters](beluga_example/params/default.ros2.yaml) are compatible with the robot.

1. **Use RViz to visualize the localization output**.

   For ROS 2 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   rviz2 -d $(ros2 pkg prefix --share beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros2.rviz
   ```

   For ROS 1 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   rviz -d $(rospack find beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros.rviz
   ```

   **Quality of Service**

   In ROS 2, when subscribing to the output topics from localization, we recommend the following [QoS](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Quality-of-Service-Settings.html) settings:

   | Topic            | Depth | History      | Reliability  | Durability      |
   |------------------|-------|--------------|--------------|-----------------|
   | `map`            | 5     | Keep last    | Reliable     | Transient local |
   | `particle_cloud` | 5     | Keep last    | Best effort  | Volatile        |
   | `pose`           | 5     | Keep last    | Reliable     | Volatile        |


- Launch a pre-recorded ROS bag with perfect odometry and Beluga AMCL.
  ```bash
  ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml
  ```

- Launch a pre-recorded ROS bag and Beluga AMCL as a composable node.
  ```bash
  ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml use_composition:=True
  ```

- Launch a simulation that can be teleoperated together with Beluga AMCL.
  ```bash
  ros2 launch beluga_example simulation.launch.xml
  ```

- Launch Beluga AMCL, a map server, and a lifecycle manager. Useful for testing on real robots.
  ```bash
  ros2 launch beluga_example localization_launch.py use_composition:=True
  ```

Commit message:

Isolate Flatland dependency (#361)
### Proposed changes

This patch separates the Flatland dependency from the usual ROS
workflow, documenting the necessary steps to satisfy it when and if
necessary. This should fix the recent breakage in Beluga doc jobs up in
the ROS buildfarm (e.g.
[Hdev](https://build.ros2.org/job/Hdev__beluga__ubuntu_jammy_amd64/1/display/redirect),
[Idev](https://build.ros2.org/job/Idev__beluga__ubuntu_jammy_amd64)).

#### Type of change

- [x] 🐛 Bugfix (change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] 🚀 Feature (change which adds functionality)
- [ ] 📚 Documentation (change which fixes or extends documentation)

### Checklist

- [x] Lint and unit tests (if any) pass locally with my changes
- [x] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my
feature works
- [x] I have added necessary documentation (if appropriate)
- [x] All commits have been signed for
[DCO](https://developercertificate.org/)

---------

Signed-off-by: Michel Hidalgo <michel@ekumenlabs.com>
Co-authored-by: Nahuel Espinosa <nespinosa@ekumenlabs.com>

beluga_example/README.md, after:

# Beluga Example

This package contains example launch files that demonstrate the use of Beluga-based nodes (e.g. [Beluga AMCL](../beluga_amcl)) with external ROS bags or simulation software.

## Examples

The following examples are easier to run in [Beluga development containers](../DEVELOPING.md#environment).

1. **Run an example application using a ROS bag**.

    For ROS 2 distributions, run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source install/setup.bash
    ros2 launch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch.xml
    ```

    For ROS 1 distributions, run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source devel*/setup.bash
    roslaunch beluga_example perfect_odometry.launch
    ```

1. **Run an example application using a simulation and teleop controls**.

    For ROS 2 distributions, in two separate terminals run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source install/setup.bash
    ros2 launch beluga_example simulation.launch.xml
    ```
    ```bash
    ros2 run teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
    ```

    For ROS 1 distributions, in two separate terminals run:
    ```bash
    cd /ws
    source devel*/setup.bash
    roslaunch beluga_example simulation.launch
    ```
    ```bash
    rosrun teleop_twist_keyboard teleop_twist_keyboard
    ```

    Note that this example uses [Flatland](https://flatland-simulator.readthedocs.io) for simulation.
    A Flatland source installation is provisioned in development containers.
    You will have to provision one yourself to run this elsewhere.

1. **Launch a localization node manually**.

   For ROS 2 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   ros2 launch beluga_example localization_launch.py use_composition:=True localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
   ```

   For ROS 1 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   roslaunch beluga_example localization.launch localization_params_file:=<PARAMS_PATH> localization_map:=<MAP_YAML_PATH>
   ```

   The `localization_params_file` argument can be ommited if the [default AMCL parameters](beluga_example/params/default.ros2.yaml) are compatible with the robot.

1. **Use RViz to visualize the localization output**.

   For ROS 2 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   rviz2 -d $(ros2 pkg prefix --share beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros2.rviz
   ```

   For ROS 1 distributions, run:
   ```bash
   rviz -d $(rospack find beluga_example)/rviz/rviz.ros.rviz
   ```

   **Quality of Service**

   In ROS 2, when subscribing to the output topics from localization, we recommend the following [QoS](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Quality-of-Service-Settings.html) settings:

   | Topic            | Depth | History      | Reliability  | Durability      |
   |------------------|-------|--------------|--------------|-----------------|
   | `map`            | 5     | Keep last    | Reliable     | Transient local |
   | `particle_cloud` | 5     | Keep last    | Best effort  | Volatile        |
   | `pose`           | 5     | Keep last    | Reliable     | Volatile        |
